feat: add docs for searchbase (#156)
appbaseio/Docs: content/docs/reactivesearch/searchbase/overview/component.md

---
title: 'Component class'
meta_title: 'API Reference for Component class'
meta_description: 'Component class represents the properties/methods for a search component.'
keywords:
    - apireference
    - searchbase
    - elasticsearch
    - search library
sidebar: 'docs'
nestedSidebar: 'searchbase-reactivesearch'
---

> ## How does it work??

Reviewer: Use a standard section headers across all the docs. And remove `??`.

    -   **customEvents** `Object` It allows you to set the custom events which can be used to build your own analytics on top of appbase.io analytics. Further, these events can be used to filter the analytics stats from the appbase.io dashboard.

#### To configure the ReactiveSearch API

-   **id** `string` [Required]
    unique identifier of the component, can be referenced in other components' `react` prop.

-   **type** `string`
    This property represents the type of the query which is defaults to `search`, valid values are `search`, `term`, `range` & `geo`. You can read more [here](/docs/search/reactivesearch-api/implement/#type-of-queries).

-   **dataField** `string | Array<string | DataField>`
    index field(s) to be connected to the component’s UI view. DataSearch accepts an `Array` in addition to `string`, which is useful for searching across multiple fields with or without field weights.<br/>
    Field weights allow weighted search for the index fields. A higher number implies a higher relevance weight for the corresponding field in the search results.<br/>

>     You can define the `dataField` as an array of objects of the `DataField` type to set the field weights.<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can define the `dataField` property as an array of objects of the `DataField` type to set the field weights.<br/>
```

    The `DataField` type has the following shape:

    ```ts
    type DataField = {
    	field: string;
    	weight: number;
    };
    ```

-   **value** `any`

>     Represents the value for a particular query [type](/docs/search/reactivesearch-api/reference/#type), each kind of query has the different type of value format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Represents the value for a particular query [type](/docs/search/reactivesearch-api/reference/#type). Depending on the query type, the value format would differ. You can refer to the different value formats over [here](/docs/search/reactivesearch-api/reference/#value).
```
